Palette self-hosted airgap refactor (#1230)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/12-enterprise-version/06-air-gap-repo.md

The following diagram is a high-level overview of the order of operations required to deploy a self-hosted instance of Palette in an airgap environment.

![An architecture diagram outlining the five different event milestons](/enterprise-version_air-gap-repo_overview-order-diagram.png)

The airgap installation can be simplified into five major milestones. 

<br />

1. The first milestone is to download the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) image and deploy the instance hosting the private repository supporting the airgap environment.

2. The private Spectro Cloud repository is initialized, and all the Palette-required artifacts are downloaded and available.

3. The Palette Install OVA is deployed, configured, and initialized.

4. The scale-up process to a highly available three-node installation begins.

5. Palette is ready for usage.

> This guide will focus on the first two milestones as the remaining ones are covered in the [Migrate Cluster to Enterprise](/deploying-an-enterprise-cluster) guide and the [Install Using Quick-Start Mode](/enterprise-version/deploying-the-platform-installer) guide.

Reviewer: - What was phase 2?

> This guide will focus on the first two milestones as the remaining ones are covered in the [Migrate Cluster to Enterprise](/deploying-an-enterprise-cluster) guide and the [Install Using Quick-Start Mode](/enterprise-version/deploying-the-platform-installer) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide focuses on the first installation phase, as the remaining ones are covered in the [Migrate Cluster to Enterprise](/deploying-an-enterprise-cluster) guide and the [Install Using Quick-Start Mode](/enterprise-version/deploying-the-platform-installer) guide.
```

# Prerequisites

> * The following minimum resources are required for deploying Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The following minimum resources are required to deploy Palette.
```

* Request the Palette self-hosted installer image and the Palette air gap installer image. To request the installer images, please contact our support team by sending an email to support@spectrocloud.com. Kindly provide the following information in your email:

    - Your full name
    - Organization name (if applicable)
    - Email address
    - Phone number (optional)
    - A brief description of your intended use for the Palette Self-host installer image.

Our dedicated support team will promptly get in touch with you to provide the necessary assistance and share the installer image. 

If you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact support@spectrocloud.com.

<br />

# Deploy Air Gapped Appliance

1. Log in to vCenter Server by using the vSphere Client.

2. Navigate to the Datacenter and select the cluster you want to use for the installation. Right-click on the cluster and select **Deploy OVF Template**.

3. Select the airgap OVA installer image you downloaded after receiving guidance from our support team.

4. Select the folder where you want to install the Virtual Machine (VM) and assign a name to the VM.

5. Next, select the compute resource.

> 6. Review the details page. You may get a warning message stating the certificate is not trusted, you can ignore this message and select **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Review the details page. You may get a warning message stating the certificate is not trusted, you can click **Ignore** the message and select **Next**.
```

Reviewer: I modified this slightly because the user has to click the link to ignore it. Certificate errors could happen if they don't click Ignore, I think.

7. Select your storage device and storage policy. Click on **Next** to proceed.

8. Choose a network for your appliance and select **Next**.

9. Fill out the remaining template customization options. You can modify the following input fields. <br /><br />

  | Parameter | Description |  Default Value |
  | --- | --- | -- |

>   | Encoded user-data | In order to fit into a xml attribute, this value is base64 encoded . This value will be decoded, and then processed normally as user-data. | - |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | Encoded user-data | In order to fit into an xml attribute, this value is base64 encoded. This value will be decoded, and then processed normally as user-data. | - |
```

>   | ssh public keys | This field is optional, but indicates that the instance should populate the default user's `authorized_keys` with this publick key provided | -|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | ssh public keys | This field is optional but indicates that the instance should populate the default user's `authorized_keys` with the provided public key. | -|
```

>   | Default User's password|  If set, the default user's password will be set to this value to allow password based login.  The password will be good for only a single login.  If set to the string `RANDOM` then a random password will be generated, and written to the console. | - |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  | Default User's password|  Setting this value allows password-based login. The password will be good for only a single login.  If set to the string `RANDOM` then a random password will be generated, and written to the console. | - |
```

  | A Unique Instance ID for this instance|  Specifies the instance id. This is required and used to determine if the machine should take "first boot" actions| `id-ovf`|
  |hostname| Specifies the hostname for the appliance. | `ubuntuguest` |

>   |Url to seed instance data from| This field is optional, but indicates that the instance should 'seed' user-data and meta-data from the given url.| -|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  |URL to seed instance data from| This field is optional but indicates that the instance should 'seed' user-data and meta-data from the given URL.| -|
```

> 

Reviewer: Should parameter names be boldfaced (since they're in a form). I boldfaced parm names in the QS doc.

  Example Output: 
  ```shell
  Setting up Manifests
  Setting up Manifests
  Setting up SSL Certs
  Setup Completed

  Details:
    -------
  Spectro Cloud Repository
  UserName: spectro
  Password: admin@airgap
  Location: https://10.10.249.12
  Artifact Repo Certificate:
  LS0tLS1CRUdJ.............<condensed>

  Pack Registry
  URL: https://10.10.249.12:5000
  Username: admin
  Password: admin@airgap
  ```

15. If you need to configure the instance with proxy settings, go ahead and do so now. You can configure proxy settings by using environment variables. Replace the values with your environment's respective values.

  <br />

  ```shell
  export http_proxy=http://10.1.1.1:8888
  export https_proxy=https://10.1.1.1:8888
  export no_proxy=.example.dev,10.0.0.0/8
  ```

16. The next set of steps will download the required binaries to support a Palette installation, such as the Palette Installer, required Kubernetes packages, and Kubeadm pages. You can download these artifacts from the instance, or externally and transfer them to the instance. Click on each tab for further guidance.

  <br />

  <WarningBox>

>   You must download the three following resources. The credentials and download URL will be provided to you by the support team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You must download the following three resources. Our support team will provide you with the credentials and download URL.
```

  ```

</Tabs.TabPane>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="Kubeadm Packages" key="kubeadm-packages">

   Download the binary by using the URL provided by the Palette support team. Change the version number as needed.

  <br />

  ```shell
  curl --user XXXX:YYYYY https://<provided-by-support>/airgap/packs/3.3/airgap-edge-kubeadm.bin \
   --output airgap-edge-kubeadm.bin
  ```

  <InfoBox>

   If you receive a certificate error, use the `-k` or `--insecure` flag.
  
  </InfoBox>

   Assign the proper permissions and start the download script.

  <br />

  ```shell
  sudo chmod 755 ./airgap-edge-kubeadm.bin && sudo ./airgap-edge-kubeadm.bin
  ```

  Example Output:
  ```shell
  sudo ./airgap-edge-kubeadm.bin
  Verifying archive integrity...  100%   MD5 checksums are OK. All good.
  Uncompressing Airgap Edge Packs - Kubeadm Images   100%
  Setting up Images
    - Skipping image k8s.gcr.io/coredns/coredns:v1.8.6
    - Pushing image k8s.gcr.io/etcd:3.5.1-0
    - Pushing image k8s.gcr.io/kube-apiserver:v1.23.12
    - Pushing image k8s.gcr.io/kube-controller-manager:v1.23.12
    - Pushing image k8s.gcr.io/kube-proxy:v1.23.12
    …
  Setup Completed
  ```

</Tabs.TabPane>

</Tabs>

<br />

> 17. If you will be using Edge deployments then go ahead and download the packages your Edge deployments will need. If you are not planning on using Edge, skip to end. You can come back to this step in the future and add the packages if needed. Click on the `...` tab for additional options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
17. If you will be using Edge deployments, go ahead and download the packages your Edge deployments will need. If you are not planning to use Edge, skip to end. You can come back to this step in the future and add the packages if needed. Click on the `...` tab for additional options.
```

   Download the binary by using the URL provided by the Palette support team. Change the version number as needed.

  <br />

  ```shell
  curl --user XXXX:YYYYY https://<provided-by-support>/airgap/packs/3.3/airgap-edge-opensuse-kubeadm.bin \
   --output airgap-edge-opensuse-kubeadm.bin
  ```

  <InfoBox>

  If you receive a certificate error, use the `-k` or `--insecure` flag.

  </InfoBox>

   Assign the proper permissions and start the download script.
  
  <br />

  ```shell
  sudo chmod 755 ./airgap-edge-opensuse-kubeadm.bin && sudo ./airgap-edge-opensuse-kubeadm.bin
  ```

</Tabs.TabPane>

</Tabs>

<br />

----

<br />

The next step of the installation process is to begin the deployment of an appliance using the instructions in the [Migrate Cluster to Enterprise Mode](/enterprise-version/deploying-an-enterprise-cluster). If you need to review the Spectro Cloud Repository details, issue the following command for detailed output.

<br />

```shell
sudo /bin/airgap-setup.sh
```

<br />

<InfoBox>

You can review all the logs related to the setup of the private Spectro repository in  **/tmp/airgap-setup.log**.

</InfoBox>

> # Validate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Validation
```

You can validate that the Spectro Repository you deployed is available and ready for the next steps of the installation process. If you provided the appliance with an SSH key then you can skip to step five.

> 

Reviewer: Add a break in here to space before step 1.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

<br /
```

1. Log in to vCenter Server by using the vSphere Client.

2. Navigate to your Datacenter and locate your VM. Click on the VM to access its details page.

3. Power on the VM.

4. Click on **Launch Web Console** to access the terminal.

> 5. Log in with the user `ubuntu` and the user password you specified during the installation. If you are using SSH, use the following command but ensure you specify the path to your SSH private key and replace the IP address with your appliance's static IP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Log in with the user `ubuntu` and the user password you specified during the installation. If you are using SSH, use the following command, and ensure you specify the path to your SSH private key and replace the IP address with your appliance's static IP.
```

  <br />

  ```shell
  ssh --identity_file ~/path/to/your/file ubuntu@10.1.1.1
  ```

6. Verify the registry server is up and available. Replace the `10.1.1.1` value with your appliance's IP address.

  <br />

  ```shell
  curl --insecure https://10.1.1.1:5000/health
  ```

>   Output:

Reviewer: Do you want to name this 'Example Output' to match previous labels for example output?

  ```shell
  {"status":"UP"}
  ```

7. Ensure you can log into your registry server. Use the default credentials `admin:admin@airgap`. Replace the `10.1.1.1` value with your appliance's IP address.

  <br />

  ```shell
  curl --insecure --user admin:admin@airgap https://10.1.1.1:5000/v1/_catalog
  ```

>   Output:

Reviewer: 'Example Output'

>   Output:

Author: ```suggestion
  Example Output:
```

---

import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';

# Overview

You can install a self-hosted version of Palette into a VMware environment without direct internet access. This type of installation is referred to as an *air gap* installation. 

In a standard Palette installation, the following artifacts are downloaded by default from the public Palette repository.

* Palette platform manifests and required platform packages.

* Container images for core platform components and 3rd party dependencies.

* Palette Packs.

The installation process changes a bit in an air gap environment due to the lack of internet access. Before the primary Palette installation step, you must download the three required Palette artifacts mentioned above. The other significant change is that Palette's default public repository is not used. Instead, a private repository supports all Palette operations pertaining to storing images and packages. 

The following diagram is a high-level overview of the order of operations required to deploy a self-hosted instance of Palette in an airgap environment.

> ![An architecture diagram outlining the five different event milestons](/enterprise-version_air-gap-repo_overview-order-diagram.png)

Author: ```suggestion
![An architecture diagram outlining the five different install phases](/enterprise-version_air-gap-repo_overview-order-diagram.png)
```

> The airgap installation can be simplified into five major milestones. 

Author: ```suggestion
The airgap installation can be simplified into five major phases. 
```

<br />

> 1. The first phase of installation is to download the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) image and deploy the instance hosting the private repository that supports the airgap environment.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Download the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) image and deploy the instance hosting the private repository that supports the airgap environment.
```

2. The private Spectro Cloud repository is initialized, and all the Palette-required artifacts are downloaded and available.

3. The Palette Install OVA is deployed, configured, and initialized.

4. The scale-up process to a highly available three-node installation begins.

5. Palette is ready for usage.

> This guide focuses on the first installation phase, as the remaining ones are covered in the [Migrate Cluster to Enterprise](/deploying-an-enterprise-cluster) guide and the [Install Using Quick-Start Mode](/enterprise-version/deploying-the-platform-installer) guide.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide focuses on the first two installation phases, as the remaining ones are covered in the [Migrate Cluster to Enterprise](/deploying-an-enterprise-cluster) guide and the [Install Using Quick-Start Mode](/enterprise-version/deploying-the-platform-installer) guide.
```

Our dedicated support team will promptly get in touch with you to provide the necessary assistance and share the installer image. 

If you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact support@spectrocloud.com.

<br />

# Deploy Air Gapped Appliance

1. Log in to vCenter Server by using the vSphere Client.

2. Navigate to the Datacenter and select the cluster you want to use for the installation. Right-click on the cluster and select **Deploy OVF Template**.

3. Select the airgap OVA installer image you downloaded after receiving guidance from our support team.

4. Select the folder where you want to install the Virtual Machine (VM) and assign a name to the VM.

5. Next, select the compute resource.

6. Review the details page. You may get a warning message stating the certificate is not trusted. You can ignore the message and click **Next**.

7. Select your storage device and storage policy. Click on **Next** to proceed.

8. Choose a network for your appliance and select **Next**.

9. Fill out the remaining template customization options. You can modify the following input fields. <br /><br />

> 
>   | Parameter | Description |  Default Value |
>   | --- | --- | -- |
>   | Encoded user-data | In order to fit into an XML attribute, this value is base64 encoded. This value will be decoded, and then processed normally as user-data. | - |
>   | ssh public keys | This field is optional but indicates that the instance should populate the default user's `authorized_keys` with the provided public key. | -|
>   | Default User's password|  Setting this value allows password-based login. The password will be good for only a single login.  If set to the string `RANDOM` then a random password will be generated, and written to the console. | - |
>   | A Unique Instance ID for this instance|  Specifies the instance id. This is required and used to determine if the machine should take "first boot" actions| `id-ovf`|
>   |hostname| Specifies the hostname for the appliance. | `ubuntuguest` |
>   |URL to seed instance data from| This field is optional but indicates that the instance should 'seed' user-data and meta-data from the given URL.| -|

Author: ```suggestion

  | Parameter | Description |  Default Value |
  | --- | --- | -- |
  | **Encoded user-data** | In order to fit into an XML attribute, this value is base64 encoded. This value will be decoded, and then processed normally as user-data. | - |
  | **ssh public keys** | This field is optional but indicates that the instance should populate the default user's `authorized_keys` with the provided public key. | -|
  | **Default User's password** |  Setting this value allows password-based login. The password will be good for only a single login.  If set to the string `RANDOM` then a random password will be generated, and written to the console. | - |
  | **A Unique Instance ID for this instance** |  Specifies the instance id. This is required and used to determine if the machine should take "first boot" actions| `id-ovf`|
  | **Hostname** | Specifies the hostname for the appliance. | `ubuntuguest` |
  | **URL to seed instance data from** | This field is optional but indicates that the instance should 'seed' user-data and meta-data from the given URL.| -|
```

  <br />

  ```shell
  sudo /bin/airgap-setup.sh X.X.X.X
  ```

  Record the output of the setup command as you will use it when deploying the Quick Start appliance later on in the installation process.

  Example Output: 
  ```shell
  Setting up Manifests
  Setting up Manifests
  Setting up SSL Certs
  Setup Completed

  Details:
    -------
  Spectro Cloud Repository
  UserName: spectro
  Password: admin@airgap
  Location: https://10.10.249.12
  Artifact Repo Certificate:
  LS0tLS1CRUdJ.............<condensed>

  Pack Registry
  URL: https://10.10.249.12:5000
  Username: admin
  Password: admin@airgap
  ```

15. If you need to configure the instance with proxy settings, go ahead and do so now. You can configure proxy settings by using environment variables. Replace the values with your environment's respective values.

  <br />

  ```shell
  export http_proxy=http://10.1.1.1:8888
  export https_proxy=https://10.1.1.1:8888
  export no_proxy=.example.dev,10.0.0.0/8
  ```

> 16. The next set of steps will download the required binaries to support a Palette installation, such as the Palette Installer, required Kubernetes packages, and Kubeadm pages. You can download these artifacts from the instance, or externally and transfer them to the instance. Click on each tab for further guidance.

Author: ```suggestion
16. The next set of steps will download the required binaries to support a Palette installation, such as the Palette Installer, required Kubernetes packages, and kubeadm pages. You can download these artifacts from the instance, or externally and transfer them to the instance. Click on each tab for further guidance.
```

> 16. The next set of steps will download the required binaries to support a Palette installation, such as the Palette Installer, required Kubernetes packages, and kubeadm pages. You can download these artifacts from the instance, or externally and transfer them to the instance. Click on each tab for further guidance.

Reviewer 2: Kubernetes packages, and kubeadm packages.

Author: Nice catch

  <br />

  <WarningBox>

  You must download the following three resources. Our support team will provide you with the credentials and download URL.
  Click on each tab to learn more about each resource and steps for downloading.

  </WarningBox>

<br />

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="Palette Installer" key="palette-installer">

  Download the binary by using the URL provided by the Palette support team. Change the version number as needed.

  <br />

  ```shell

>   curl --user XXXX:YYYYY https://<provided-by-support>/airgap/packs/airgap-k8s-v3.3.15.bin \

Reviewer 2: airgap-v3.3.15.bin . K8s prefix is only for K8s packages

<br />
1. Log in to vCenter Server by using the vSphere Client.

2. Navigate to your Datacenter and locate your VM. Click on the VM to access its details page.

3. Power on the VM.

4. Click on **Launch Web Console** to access the terminal.

5. Log in with the user `ubuntu` and the user password you specified during the installation. If you are using SSH, use the following command, and ensure you specify the path to your SSH private key and replace the IP address with your appliance's static IP.

  <br />

  ```shell
  ssh --identity_file ~/path/to/your/file ubuntu@10.1.1.1
  ```

6. Verify the registry server is up and available. Replace the `10.1.1.1` value with your appliance's IP address.

  <br />

  ```shell
  curl --insecure https://10.1.1.1:5000/health
  ```

  Example Output:
  ```shell
  {"status":"UP"}
  ```

7. Ensure you can log into your registry server. Use the default credentials `admin:admin@airgap`. Replace the `10.1.1.1` value with your appliance's IP address.

  <br />

  ```shell

>   curl --insecure --user admin:admin@airgap https://10.1.1.1:5000/v1/_catalog

Reviewer 2: Can we mask the password here and just state the password obtained from airgap-setup.sh 
We dont need to publicize that the password is a hard coded one and available for anyone to view
